OK, so we have our edit, we have multiple soundtrack's, we have some sound design, we have an end
card.
We have some film burns in overlays some time remapping some filters that we've added to the visuals
and to the audio.
And let's see.
And we've plugged in our version one rough edit notes.
And let's say we've had more time to refine our edit.
Now, there are some further things that we can do to upgrade the overall look and feel.
Now, something that you can do and that feature films have is a very specific aspect ratio.
You'll notice if you go to a film or you download a movie and you watch it on Netflix, download a movie.
Oh my God, this is twenty twenty one.
If you stream a movie and you watch it on Netflix or any other website and you full screen it.
It's not going to fill the screen.
There's going to be a lot below it and a lot above that screen that's going to have black bars.
Now, that's because that's the type of aspect ratio of films are shot and we can mimic that aspect
ratio, which naturally creates a more cinematic and aesthetically pleasing image in most scenarios.
So what I'm going to do is go ahead and take this overlay.
So this is a two two by thirty five aspect ratio.
So we're going to go from a sixteen by nine to this new aspect ratio.
And you're going to see it's going to drop on these black bars across our edit.
And instantly we can see now it is going to cover some of these things and we can totally reframe shots.
All we have to do is click on our shot, shoot it down.
Boom, we're good.
Now, I'm just going to go ahead and click through so we can see an example of what this is doing.
So we have this shot with the bars.
And let me actually make some more room here to make it bigger with the bars without OK, with it just
looks more framed.
It frames things up a little bit better.
So let's kind of fix some of these and let's move her up.
And it has more of a film quality when we have this ratio.
So we have it without width and there's a bar at the bottom because I moved this one.
So let's actually move to a different one.
Let's actually let it play.
Just so you get a feel for what that looks like now.
In my opinion, this looks really good on full screen when you're showing your video on a projector
against a big wall.
The video is being watched full screen on a big computer screen or a television screen.
It doesn't look so good when it's just being viewed on a, you know, small iPhone screen or in just
the little screen on Instagram, because that's just the nature of how it's being viewed on that kind
of screen or scenario.
So I wanted to throw this in here, because it is it a little professional extra sauce that you can
overlay on top of your footage, because for this specific project, we're not doing any color correction.
We're working with footage that's already been color corrected and refined.
But the letterboxing or changing the aspect ratio, just like this is a great way to get that more cinematic
documentary feature film.
Look, I mean, like this shot looks so cool with it, especially.
So, yeah, it makes a really big difference, but it really depends on where your project is going
to be viewed.
Now, you can go and find these online just these simple pages that have a transparent center or, you
know, you can even make it yourself.
So let's go ahead and delete this.
I'm going to go to our project panel.
I'm going to create a new item and then do a black video.
I'm going to drag it on top and it's going to fill the whole screen, of course.
But what we can actually do is create a mask right over here.
I went to opacity.
I clicked mask.
And then we can drag out this box that we just created.
So I'm going to drag it out and I'm going to invert the mask.
And now I'm going to expand the layer that we have.
So and I need to turn off the feathering.
You don't want to feather because then you're going to have more of a vignette than anything else.
So I want to turn off the feathering.
Now, we actually have a lot of control.
We could really make it stylized, which will look great.
Like I said, if it was going to be viewed full screen on a big screen, or we can make it really minimal
by adjusting the expansion of this black video adjustment layer that we just dropped on top of our footage.
So that's a great way to add a little final refinement if your project needs it and where it's going
to be played, make sense for this type of process.